# And hence
And hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing the widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his art, so place and time himself on his way, as even then not to be wholly without prospect of a meeting.

## There was a circumstance

There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle his delirious but still methodical scheme. But not so in the reality, perhaps. Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons for particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the herds which haunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year, say, will turn out to be identically the same with those that were found there the preceding season; though there are peculiar and unquestionable instances where the contrary of this has proved true. In general, the same remark, only within a less wide limit, applies to the solitaries and hermits among the matured, aged sperm whales. So that though Moby Dick had in a former year been seen, for example, on what is called the Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or Volcano Bay on the Japanese Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the Pequod to visit either of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season, she would infallibly encounter him there. So, too, with some other feeding grounds, where he had at times revealed himself. But all these seemed only his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places of prolonged abode. And where Ahab's chances of accomplishing his object have hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to whatever way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a particular set time or place were attained, when all possibilities would become probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every possibility the next thing to a certainty. That particular set time and place were conjoined in the one technical phrase&mdash;the Season-on-the-Line. For there and then, for several consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round, loiters for a predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac. There it was, too, that most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had taken place; there the waves were storied with his deeds; there also was that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man had found the awful motive to his vengeance. But in the cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering vigilance with which Ahab threw his brooding soul into this unfaltering hunt, he would not permit himself to rest all his hopes upon the one crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering it might be to those hopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillize his unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.

## Now, the Pequod

Now, the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the Season-on-the-Line. No possible endeavor then could enable her commander to make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time to cruise there. Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season. Yet the premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been correctly selected by Ahab, with a view to this very complexion of things. Because, an interval of three hundred and sixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval which, instead of impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt; if by chance the White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remote from his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his wrinkled brow off the Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or in any other waters haunted by his race. So that Monsoons, Pampas, Nor'-Westers, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoon, might blow Moby Dick into the devious zig-zag world-circle of the Pequod's circumnavigating wake.

But granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it not but a mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary whale, even if encountered, should be thought capable of individual recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For the peculiar snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his snow-white hump, could not but be unmistakable. And have I not tallied the whale, Ahab would mutter to himself, as after poring over his charts till long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveries&mdash;tallied him, and shall he escape? His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost sheep's ear! And here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till a weariness and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of the deck he would seek to recover his strength. Ah, God! what trances of torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved revengeful desire. He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes with his own bloody nails in his palms.
# So he sprang

So he sprang into the water, and the Tin Woodman caught fast hold of his tail.  Then the Lion began to swim with all his might toward the shore.  It was hard work, although he was so big; but by and by they were drawn out of the current, and then Dorothy took the Tin Woodman's long pole and helped push the raft to the land.

They were all tired out when they reached the shore at last and stepped off upon the pretty green grass, and they also knew that the stream had carried them a long way past the road of yellow brick that led to the Emerald City.

## What shall we do

"What shall we do now?" asked the Tin Woodman, as the Lion lay down on the grass to let the sun dry him.

"We must get back to the road, in some way," said Dorothy.

"The best plan will be to walk along the riverbank until we come to the road again," remarked the Lion.

So, when they were rested, Dorothy picked up her basket and they started along the grassy bank, to the road from which the river had carried them.  It was a lovely country, with plenty of flowers and fruit trees and sunshine to cheer them, and had they not felt so sorry for the poor Scarecrow, they could have been very happy.

## They walked along

They walked along as fast as they could, Dorothy only stopping once to pick a beautiful flower; and after a time the Tin Woodman cried out: "Look!"

Then they all looked at the river and saw the Scarecrow perched upon his pole in the middle of the water, looking very lonely and sad.
# She lay

"She lay on the floor, a bundle of notebooks under her head. And we  could do nothing. The coldness and the numbness crept up past her hips  to her heart, and when it reached her heart she was dead. In fifteen  minutes, by the clock&mdash;I timed it&mdash;she was dead, there, in my own  classroom, dead. And she was a very beautiful, strong, healthy young  woman. And from the first sign of the plague to her death only fifteen  minutes elapsed. That will show you how swift was the Scarlet Death.

"Yet in those few minutes I remained with the dying woman in my  classroom, the alarm had spread over the university; and the students,  by thousands, all of them, had deserted the lecture-room and  laboratories. When I emerged, on my way to make report to the President  of the Faculty, I found the university deserted. Across the campus were  several stragglers hurrying for their homes. Two of them were running.

## President Hoag

"President Hoag, I found in his office, all alone, looking very old and  very gray, with a multitude of wrinkles in his face that I had never  seen before. At the sight of me, he pulled himself to his feet and  tottered away to the inner office, banging the door after him and  locking it. You see, he knew I had been exposed, and he was afraid.  He shouted to me through the door to go away. I shall never forget  my feelings as I walked down the silent corridors and out across that  deserted campus. I was not afraid. I had been exposed, and I looked  upon myself as already dead. It was not that, but a feeling of awful  depression that impressed me. Everything had stopped. It was like the  end of the world to me&mdash;my world. I had been born within sight and sound  of the university. It had been my predestined career. My father had been  a professor there before me, and his father before him. For a century  and a half had this university, like a splendid machine, been running  steadily on. And now, in an instant, it had stopped. It was like seeing  the sacred flame die down on some thrice-sacred altar. I was shocked,  unutterably shocked.

## When I arrived

"When I arrived home, my housekeeper screamed as I entered, and fled  away. And when I rang, I found the housemaid had likewise fled. I  investigated. In the kitchen I found the cook on the point of departure.  But she screamed, too, and in her haste dropped a suitcase of her  personal belongings and ran out of the house and across the grounds,  still screaming. I can hear her scream to this day. You see, we did not  act in this way when ordinary diseases smote us. We were always calm  over such things, and sent for the doctors and nurses who knew just  what to do. But this was different. It struck so suddenly, and killed so  swiftly, and never missed a stroke. When the scarlet rash appeared on a  person's face, that person was marked by death. There was never a known  case of a recovery.
