# [Clackamas River](/clackamas)

All hatchery programs have been restricted to the lower river in recent years to
keep hatchery adults from mixing with wild fish on upper-river spawning beds.

Target water on the Clackamas is found from River Mill Dam downstream, including
the Eagle Creek tributary.

The lower Clackamas River (from the mouth at the Willamette River up to Cazadero
Dam above Estacada) is open year-round for fin-clipped steelhead.

The Clackamas draws from a large basin in the northern Oregon Cascades. It holds
up well with modest rainfall and fishes when smaller streams are too low, but it
can take some time to recover after a heavy rainfall.

For ideal conditions for fall through spring fishing, look for the river height
to be around 10 to 13 feet at the Estacada gauge. It will drop below that for
much of the summer, but fishing is still worthwhile for summer-runs. Below about
XX feet, the river is tough on jet boats. Drift boaters access it down to xx
feet. Rafters go down all summer.

## License requirements

In addition to a fishing license, steelhead anglers need to purchase a Combined
Angling Tag (steelhead, salmon, sturgeon and Pacific halibut).

Anglers also can purchase Hatchery Harvest Tags that authorize the harvest of
additional hatchery fish.

http://www.dfw.state.or.us/resources/licenses_regs/docs/fishing_harvest_card_location_codes.pdf

## Limits
* 2 hatchery trout per day, no minimum length, May 22 – Oct 31
* Open all year for hatchery salmon and hatchery steelhead
* Combined daily limit of 3 hatchery salmon or hatchery steelhead per day
* Wild steelhead must be catch and release

## Locations
### Carver
This is the most heavily used ramp on the river, and for good reason. Carver is
centrally located in the most productive jet boat water. From Carver downstream
to Riverside Park is where the best side-drifting water lies.

It is home to the longest runs on the river, and the least houses, as
side-drifting is a new endeavor on the Clackamas and homeowners are less than
enthused with its introduction (more on that later). Under high water
conditions, there are usually a few steelhead caught in the park immediately
below the mouth of Clear Creek.

Other than that, bank fishing opportunities are minimal.

### Barton Park
The runs and riffles become more compact, albeit only slightly, and there is
much more character and definition to the holding water. This continues to
Barton Park, the next launch upstream from Carver.

The Barton to Carver stretch is the most popular float on the river for drift
boats. With access for jet boats coming upstream from Carver, this section is
also the most crowded portion of the river.

You’ll find numerous pieces of picture-perfect steelhead water, as with the
Carver to Riverside stretch, but the spots are smaller and more compact.

Bank fishing at Barton consists of a couple of nice pieces of water immediately
above and below the launch ramp.

Adventuresome anglers can park on the west side of the bridge crossing the river
and hike downstream to access another quality drift.

### Feldheimer
There are numerous braids and shallow bars, yet while this stretch appears to
contain excellent steelhead water, the fish seem to transition through it rather
quickly, leaving consistent success difficult to achieve.

Some of the best water in the area is the long run immediately in front of,
above and below the launch itself.

### McIver Park
There are two boat launches in McIver Park, upper and lower. The lower launch is
only a short distance above Feldheimer. There is a beautiful run immediately in
front of the launch, but the drift offers little else in terms of great quality
water.

While not well positioned for boating anglers, McIver Park does offer some of
the best bank fishing opportunity on the river. The angler willing to walk a bit
can access great water above the upper launch that terminates at Rivermill Dam.
The hatchery intake is located just below the launch at Dog Creek and the usual
hatchery circus (although this is a tight area) can be found there.

In the direction of the lower launch there are a few good buckets available to
the bank angler willing to seek them out.

### Eagle Creek
Eagle Creek will blow out of fishing shape quickly following heavy rainfall, but
it also will come back into fishable condition well before the much bigger
Clackamas will. In fact, it’s often at its best when the Clackamas is running
ugly with mud and silt. However, if the Clackamas has fallen into a pretty
steelhead green after a dry spell, that most likely means Eagle Creek is low and
clear and difficult to fish.

Good areas to fish from the bank are at Bonnie Lure Park near the mouth of the
stream.  Eagle Fern Park also offers some good access. There are good holes in
the park itself, and in the first ½-mile of stream above the park.

A short distance below the park is the lower fish ladder, and the mile of stream
below the deadline there really kicks out a lot of fish.  There can be a lot of
competition here on the weekends, but the fishing is worth putting up with it.

Probably the most productive stretch of the stream open to the public is below
the hatchery.  Fishermen need to park in the marked lot about ¼-mile below the
hatchery. A trail takes anglers down to the public water.  This is a large area
that offers about 2 miles of great steelhead water, although it is rugged
country and the hiking can be difficult.

Although this stretch sees some competition, there is a lot of water for anglers
to spread out.  This stretch will produce well all the way through March, and
provide bright fish the whole time.

## Trout
The upper sections of Eagle Creek is stocked with rainbow trout three times a
year in July and August. The stream has a few wild cutthroats and rainbows.
Resident cutthroat trout exist above the uppermost waterfalls.

Oak Grove Fork between Harriet Lake and Timothy Lake, a stream section without
salmon and steelhead. There are roughly 9 to 10 stream miles between these two
reservoirs where you can keep up to two trout (rainbows and cutthroat) at least
8 inches long, which potentially could include stocked trout moving out of a
reservoir.

Regulations also allow you to keep as many non-native brook and brown trout as
you want, with no size limits. Some brown trout move out of Harriet and into the
Oak Grove Fork above, and they can reach good size, and many anglers are more
apt to practice catch and release with the browns than the brookies. The latter
tend to take over streams and don’t grow as large.

This part of the Oak Grove Fork is followed by National Forest Road 57. It can
take some hiking to reach the best waters.

To reach this area, you can take Ripplebrook Road or NF 57 near Ripplebrook
Ranger Station and reach the area above Harriet in about 15 minutes or so. The
full drive to this area is about an hour and a half from Portland following the
Clackamas River upstream through Estacada. You also can follow the Oak Grove
Fork downstream from Timothy Lake, which can also be reached off Highway 26 near
Clear Lake.

The Clackamas River and all tributaries above Cazadero are restricted to fishing
with artificial flies and lures. Fly fishing can be excellent in the Oak Grove
Fork and elsewhere up here.

The remainder of the upper Clackamas system, including forks and the Collowash
River system, have the potential for some nice catch-and-release trout fishing,
now that the stockers are no longer present and angling pressure is far reduced.
Try exploring some of these smaller streams in the upper basins.

## Steelhead
There are two main runs of steelhead in Oregon, known as “summer” and “winter”
runs. The type of steelhead run is determined by the season of the year the fish
enter freshwater. Some river systems have both types of runs while other streams
may have one or the other. Both winter and summer run fish spawn in the spring,
but they each enter the river at different times and at different stages of
reproductive maturity.

As their name suggests, summer steelhead begin migrating to their natal streams
as early as March in some streams near the coast, and as late as
October/November in some rivers in eastern Oregon. They will remain in the river
for several months before spawning. All steelhead returning to rivers east of
the Cascade Mountains are considered summer run fish.

Winter steelhead migrate into freshwater when they are closer to reproductive
maturity and are generally larger than their summer-run cousins. Winter
steelhead begin their migration in late fall and early winter with some fish
continuing to migrate well into spring. Winter steelhead spawn shortly after
entering their natal stream.

Unlike the other salmonids, steelhead are not pre-determined to die after
spawning and may live to spawn multiple times. After the eggs have been
deposited in the spring, the fry emerge in summer and may spend the next one to
three years in fresh water prior to migrating to the ocean.

### Summer
The first several dozen summer steelhead show up in March, when fishing often is
at a peak for winter steelhead and anglers also are gearing up for the river’s
spring chinook fishery. Summer steelhead catches (as well as springer catches)
pick up in April and peak from May through July.

By late summer and fall, many anglers are targeting other runs, and spring
chinook are dark, but summer steelhead fishing can be worthwhile on the
Clackamas right through its popular fall coho run.

The Clackamas once had a summer steelhead fishery beyond compare. Miles upon
miles of the upper watershed (above Estacada and North Fork Reservoir) offered
excellent fishing in glorious surroundings. The program was halted in the late
1990’s and currently all summer steelhead are released from Clackamas Fish
Hatchery at McIver Park.

Clackamas summer steelhead begin to show in the month of April, right along with
spring chinook and late winter steelhead. These are beautiful fish at this time,
bright, aggressive and fierce fighters.

The run continues well into the summer, but the best fishing throughout the
river is up until the river drops to summer levels in mid to late June. Hatchery
fish are recycled through the system to offer extra opportunities to catch them
and they will respond well to eggs, shrimp, plugs, jigs and spinners.

When the river hits a low summer level, fishing effort concentrates in the
McIver Park area where cool upriver water is most available. To be sure, there
are steelhead available all summer long on the Clackamas for those willing make
the effort.

### Winter
Winter steelhead fishing is at its best from the middle of December through February.

The steelhead first start entering Eagle Creek around the end of November but
the best fishing opportunity will probably not take place until around the
middle of December. It will continue through the first part of March.

Early in the season, anglers should focus their attention below Eagle Creek to
go after the early run. The mouth of the creek at Bonnie Lure State Recreation
Area is a popular spot to intercept fish preparing to run into the smaller
stream.

Another popular lower-river access point is at the mouth of Clear Creek, on the
south side at Carver, which can be a little better than much of the lower river
when flows are on the high side. Other lower river access points include High
Rocks (Gladstone) and Riverside Park (Clackamas).

By mid-winter, steelhead will be found in good numbers throughout the lower up
to the Estacada area. One of the best places to get at them is Milo McIver State
Park, where ODFW’s Clackamas Hatchery is located and where a good portion of
late-returning smolts are released. McIver is off Springwater road, across the
river and just downstream from Estacada, and offers a ton of riverfront access.


## Coho
Coho Salmon begin to enter the Clackamas River in August. They spawn in October
and early November.  Most of the Silver Salmon average about  5 to 10 pounds and
head straight for the Eagle Creek hatchery.

## Maps
![Lower Clackamas](http://i1.wp.com/steelheadu.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/lowerclack2.jpg "Lower Clackamas")
![Upper Clackmas](http://i1.wp.com/steelheadu.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/upperclack2.jpg "Upper Clackmas")
![Eagle Creek](http://www.totalflyfishing.com/images/2016/05/P3_f_map_OR_Eagle_Creek.jpg "Eagle Creek")
